.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007 Gunnar Ritter, Freiburg i. Br., Germany
.\"
.\" Sccsid @(#)ckitem.1	1.5 (gritter) 3/4/07
.\"
.\" from OpenSolaris ckitem 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.TH CKITEM 1 "3/4/07" "Heirloom Packaging Tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ckitem, erritem, helpitem \- build a menu; prompt for and return a menu item
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.ad l
.nh
\fBckitem\fR [\fB\-Q\fR] [\fB\-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB\-uno\fR] [\fB\-f\fR \fIfilename\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fIlabel\fR]
[ [\fB\-i\fR \fIinvis\fR] [,]...] [\fB\-m\fR \fImax\fR] [\fB\-d\fR \fIdefault\fR] [\fB\-h\fR \fIhelp\fR]
[\fB\-e\fR \fI error\fR] [\fB\-p\fR \fIprompt\fR] [\fB\-k\fR \fIpid\fR [\fB\-s\fR \fIsignal\fR]]
[\fIchoice\fR [...]]
.HP
.PD 0
.ad l
\fBerritem\fR [\fB\-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB\-e\fR \fIerror\fR] [\fIchoice\fR [..]]
.HP
.PD 0
.ad l
\fBhelpitem\fR [\fB\-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB\-h\fR \fIhelp\fR] [\fIchoice\fR [..]]
.br
.PD
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBckitem\fR utility builds a menu and prompts the user to choose one item from a menu of items.
It then verifies the response.
Options for this command define, among other things,
a prompt message whose response will be a menu item, text for help and error messages, and a default value (which will be returned if the user responds with a carriage return).
.PP
By default, the menu is formatted so that each item is prepended by a number and is printed in columns across the terminal.
Column length is determined by the longest choice.
Items are alphabetized.
.PP
All messages are limited in length to 70 characters and are formatted automatically.
Any white space used in the definition (including newline) is stripped.
The \fB\-W\fR option cancels the
automatic formatting.
When a tilde is placed at the beginning or end of a message definition, the default text will be inserted at that point, allowing both custom text and the default text to be displayed.
.PP
If the prompt, help or error message is not defined, the default message (as defined under \fBNOTES\fR) will be displayed.
.PP
Two visual tool modules are linked to the \fBckitem\fR command.
They are \fBerritem\fR (which formats and displays an error message) and \fBhelpitem\fR (which
formats and displays a help message).
These modules should be used in conjunction with \fBFML\fR objects.
In this instance, the \fBFML\fR object defines
the prompt.
When \fIchoice\fR is defined in these modules, the messages will describe the available menu choice (or choices).
.PP
The following options and operands are supported:
.TP
\fB\-d\fR\fI default\fR
Define the default value as \fIdefault\fR.
The default is not validated and so does not have to meet any criteria.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR\fI error\fR
Define the error message as \fI error\fR.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR\fI filename\fR
Define a file, \fIfilename\fR, which contains a list of menu items to be displayed.
(The format of this file is: \fBtoken<tab>description\fR.
Lines beginning with a pound sign (#) are designated as comments and ignored.)
.TP
\fB\-h\fR\fI help\fR
Define the help messages as \fI help\fR.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR\fI invis\fR
Define invisible menu choices (those which will not be printed in the menu).
(For example, ``all'' used as an
invisible choice would mean it is a legal option but does not appear in the menu.
Any number of invisible choices may be defined.) Invisible choices should be made known to a user either in the prompt or
in a help message.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR\fI pid\fR
Specify that the process \fBID\fR \fIpid\fR is to be sent a signal
if the user chooses to abort.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR\fI label\fR
Define a label, \fIlabel\fR, to print above the menu.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR\fI max\fR
Define the maximum number of menu choices that the user can choose.
The default is 1.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR
Specify that menu items should not be displayed in alphabetical order.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR
Specify that only one menu token will be returned.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR\fI prompt\fR
Define the prompt message as \fIprompt\fR.
.TP
\fB\-Q\fR
Specify that quit will not be allowed as a valid response.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR\fI signal\fR
Specify that process \fBID\fR \fIpid\fR defined with the \fB\-k\fR option is to be sent signal \fI signal\fR when quit is chosen.
If no signal is specified, SIGTERM is used.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR
Specify that menu items should be displayed as an unnumbered list.
.TP
\fB\-W\fR\fI width\fR
Specify that prompt, help and error messages will be formatted to a line length of \fIwidth\fR.
.TP
\fB\fIchoice\fR
Define menu items.
Items should be separated by white space or newline.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.PD 0
.TP
.B 0
Successful execution.
.TP
.B 1
\fBEOF\fR on input, or negative width on \fB\-W\fR option, or inability to open file on \fB\-f\fR option, or usage error.
.TP
.B 3
User termination (quit).
.TP
.B 4
No choices from which to choose.
.PD
.SH NOTES
The user may input the number of the menu item if choices are numbered or as much of the string required for a unique identification of the item.
Long menus are paged with 10 items per page.
.PP
When menu entries are defined both in a file (by using the \fB\-f\fR option) and also on the command line, they are usually combined alphabetically.
However, if the \fB\-n\fR option
is used to suppress alphabetical ordering, then the entries defined in the file are shown first, followed by the options defined on the command line.
.PP
The default prompt for \fBckitem\fR is:
.PP
.in +2
.nf
Enter selection [?,??,q]:
.fi
.in -2
.PP
One question mark will give a help message and then redisplay the prompt.
Two question marks will give a help message and then redisplay the menu label, the menu and the prompt.
.PP
The default error message if you typed a number is:
.PP
.in +2
.nf
ERROR: Bad numeric choice specification
.fi
.in -2
.PP
The default error message if you typed a string is:
.PP
.in +2
.nf
ERROR: Entry does not match available menu selection.
Enter the number
of the menu item you wish to select, the token which is associated
with the menu item, or a partial string which uniquely identifies the
token for the menu item.
Enter ?? to reprint the menu.
.fi
.in -2
.PP
The default help message is:
.PP
.in +2
.nf
Enter the number of the menu item you wish to select, the token
which is associated with the menu item, or a partial string which
uniquely identifies the token for the menu item.
Enter ? to
reprint the menu.
.fi
.in -2
.PP
When the quit option is chosen (and allowed), \fBq\fR is returned along with the return code \fB3\fR.
