.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007 Gunnar Ritter, Freiburg i. Br., Germany
.\"
.\" Sccsid @(#)ckkeywd.1	1.5 (gritter) 3/4/07
.\"
.\" from OpenSolaris ckkeywd 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.TH CKKEYWD 1 "3/4/07" "Heirloom Packaging Tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ckkeywd \- prompts for and validates a keyword
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.PD 0
.ad l
.nh
\fBckkeywd\fR [\fB\-Q\fR] [\fB\-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB\-d\fR \fIdefault\fR] [\fB\-h\fR \fIhelp\fR] [\fB\-e\fR \fIerror\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR \fIprompt\fR] [\fB\-k\fR \fIpid\fR [\fB\-s\fR \fIsignal\fR]] \fIkeyword\fR [...]
.br
.PD
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBckkeywd\fR prompts a user and validates the response.
It defines, among other things, a prompt message whose response should be one of a list of keywords, text for help and error
messages, and a default value (which will be returned if the user responds with a carriage return).
The answer returned from this command must match one of the defined list of keywords.
.PP
All messages are limited in length to 70 characters and are formatted automatically.
Any white space used in the definition (including newline) is stripped.
The \fB\-W\fR option cancels
the automatic formatting.
When a tilde is placed at the beginning or end of a message definition, the default text will be inserted at that point, allowing both custom text and the default text to be displayed.
.PP
If the prompt, help or error message is not defined, the default message (as defined under \fBNOTES\fR) will be displayed.
.PP
The following options and operands are supported:
.TP
\fB\-d\fR\fI default\fR
Defines the default value as \fIdefault\fR.
The default is not validated and so does not have to meet any criteria.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR\fI error\fR
Defines the error message as \fI error\fR.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR\fI help\fR
Defines the help messages as \fI help\fR.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR\fI pid\fR
Specifies that process \fBID\fR \fIpid\fR is to be sent a signal
if the user chooses to abort.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR\fI prompt\fR
Defines the prompt message as \fIprompt\fR.
.TP
\fB\-Q\fR
Specifies that quit will not be allowed as a valid response.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR\fI signal\fR
Specifies that the process \fBID\fR \fIpid\fR defined with
the \fB\-k\fR option is to be sent signal \fI signal\fR when quit is chosen.
If no signal is specified, SIGTERM is used.
.TP
\fB\-W\fR\fI width\fR
Specifies that prompt, help and error messages will be formatted to a line length of \fIwidth\fR.
.TP
\fB\fIkeyword\fR
Defines the keyword, or list of keywords, against which the answer will be verified.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PD 0
The following exit values are returned:
.TP
.B 0
Successful execution.
.TP
.B 1
\fBEOF\fR on input, or negative width on \fB\-W\fR option, or no keywords from which to choose,
or usage error.
.TP
.B 3
User termination (quit).
.PD
.SH NOTES
The default prompt for \fBckkeywd\fR is:
.PP
.in +2
.nf
Enter appropriate value [\fIkeyword\fR,[\|.\|.\|.\|],?,q]:
.fi
.in -2
.PP
The default error message is:
.PP
.in +2
.nf
ERROR: Please enter one of the following keywords: \fIkeyword\fR,[\|.\|.\|.\|],q
.fi
.in -2
.PP
The default help message is:
.PP
.in +2
.nf
\fIkeyword\fR\fB,[\|.\|.\|.\|],q\fR
.fi
.in -2
.PP
When the quit option is chosen (and allowed), \fBq\fR is returned along with the return code \fB3\fR.
