.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007 Gunnar Ritter, Freiburg i. Br., Germany
.\"
.\" Sccsid @(#)ckrange.1	1.5 (gritter) 3/4/07
.\"
.\" from OpenSolaris ckrange 1 "4 Nov 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.TH CKRANGE 1 "3/4/07" "Heirloom Packaging Tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ckrange, errange, helprange, valrange \- prompts for and validates an integer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.ad l
.nh
\fBckrange\fR [\fB\-Q\fR] [\fB\-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fIlower\fR] [\fB\-u\fR \fIupper\fR] [\fB\-b\fR \fIbase\fR]
[\fB\-d\fR \fIdefault\fR] [\fB\-h\fR \fIhelp\fR] [\fB\-e\fR \fIerror\fR] [\fB\-p\fR \fIprompt\fR]
[\fB\-k\fR \fIpid\fR [\fB\-s\fR \fIsignal\fR]]
.HP
.PD 0
.ad l
\fBerrange\fR [\fB\-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB\-e\fR \fIerror\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fIlower\fR]
[\fB\-u\fR \fIupper\fR] [\fB\-b\fR \fIbase\fR]
.HP
.PD 0
.ad l
\fBhelprange\fR [\fB\-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB\-h\fR \fIhelp\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fIlower\fR]
[\fB\-u\fR \fIupper\fR] [\fB\-b\fR \fIbase\fR]
.HP
.PD 0
.ad l
\fBvalrange\fR [\fB\-l\fR \fIlower\fR] [\fB\-u\fR \fIupper\fR] [\fB\-b\fR \fIbase\fR] \fIinput\fR
.br
.PD
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBckrange\fR utility prompts a user for an integer between a specified range and determines whether this response is valid.
It defines, among other things, a prompt message whose response should be an integer in the range specified, text for help and error messages, and a default
value (which is returned if the user responds with a RETURN).
.PP
This command also defines a range for valid input.
If either the lower or upper limit is left undefined, then the range is bounded on only one end.
.PP
All messages are limited in length to 79 characters and are formatted automatically.
Tabs and newlines are removed after a single whitespace character in a message definition, but spaces are not removed.
When a tilde is placed at the beginning or end of a message definition, the default text will
be inserted at that point, allowing both custom text and the default text to be displayed.
.PP
If the prompt, help or error message is not defined, the default message (as defined under EXAMPLES) is displayed.
.PP
Three visual tool modules are linked to the \fBckrange\fR command.
They are \fBerrange\fR (which formats and displays an error message on the standard output), \fBhelprange\fR (which formats and displays a help message on the standard output), and \fBvalrange\fR (which validates a response).
.PP
\fINote:\fR Negative "input" arguments confuse \fBgetopt\fR in \fBvalrange\fR.
By inserting a "\(mi" before the argument, \fBgetopt\fR processing will stop.
See
.IR getopt (1)
and
.IR intro (1)
about \fBgetopt\fR parameter handling.
\fBgetopt\fR is used to parse positional parameters and to check for legal options.
.PP
The following options and operands are supported:
.TP
\fB\-b\fR \fIbase\fR
Defines the base for input.
Must be 2 to 36, default is 10.
Base conversion uses
.IR strtol (3C).
Output is always base 10.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fIdefault\fR
Defines the default value as \fIdefault\fR.
\fIdefault\fR is converted using
.IR strtol (3C)
in the desired base.
Any characters invalid in the specified base will terminate the \fBstrtol\fR conversion without error.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR \fIerror\fR
Defines the error message as \fI error\fR.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR \fIhelp\fR
Defines the help message as \fI help\fR.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR \fIpid\fR
Specifies that process \fBID\fR \fIpid\fR is to be sent a signal if the user chooses to quit.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR \fIlower\fR
Defines the lower limit of the range as \fIlower\fR.
Default is the machine's largest negative long.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIprompt\fR
Defines the prompt message as \fIprompt\fR.
.TP
\fB\-Q\fR
Specifies that quit will not be allowed as a valid response.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fIsignal\fR
Specifies that the process \fBID\fR \fIpid\fR defined with the \fB\-k\fR option is to be sent signal \fIsignal\fR when quit is chosen.
If no signal is specified, SIGTERM is used.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR \fIupper\fR
Defines the upper limit of the range as \fIupper\fR.
Default is the machine's largest positive long.
.TP
\fB\-W\fR \fIwidth\fR
Specifies that prompt, help and error messages will be formatted to a line length of \fIwidth\fR.
.TP
\fB\fIinput\fR
Input to be verified against upper and lower limits and base.
.SH EXAMPLES
\fBExample 1 \fRDefault base 10 prompt
.LP
The default base 10 prompt for \fBckrange\fR is:
.PP
.in +2
.nf
$ \fBckrange\fR
Enter an integer between \fIlower_bound \fRand
\fIupper_bound \fR[\fIlower_bound\(miupper_bound\fR,?,q]:
.fi
.in -2
.PP
\fBExample 2 \fRDefault base 10 error message
.LP
The default base 10 error message is:
.PP
.in +2
.nf
$ \fB/usr/sadm/bin/errange\fR
ERROR: Please enter an integer between \fIlower_bound \e\fR
and \fIupper_bound\fR.
.fi
.in -2
.PP
\fBExample 3 \fRDefault base 10 help message
.LP
The default base 10 help message is:
.PP
.in +2
.nf
$ \fB/usr/sadm/bin/helprange\fR
Please enter an integer between \fIlower_bound\fR and \fIupper_bound\fR.
.fi
.in -2
.PP
\fBExample 4 \fRChanging messages for a base other than 10
.LP
The messages are changed from ``integer'' to ``base \fIbase\fR integer'' if the base is set to a number other than 10.
For example,
.PP
.in +2
.nf
$ \fB/usr/sadm/bin/helprange -b 36\fR
.fi
.in -2
.PP
\fBExample 5 \fRUsing the quit option
.LP
When the quit option is chosen (and allowed), \fBq\fR is returned along with the return code \fB3\fR.
Quit input gets a trailing newline.
.PP
\fBExample 6 \fRUsing the valrange module
.LP
The \fBvalrange\fR module will produce a usage message on stderr.
It returns \fB0\fR for success and non-zero for failure.
.PP
.in +2
.nf
$ \fB/usr/sadm/bin/valrange\fR
usage: valrange [-l lower] [-u upper] [-b base] input
.fi
.in -2
.sp
.SH EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.PD 0
.TP
.B 0
Successful execution.
.TP
.B 1
\fBEOF\fR on input, or negative width on \fB\-W\fR option, or usage error.
.TP
.B 2
Usage error.
.TP
.B 3
User termination (quit).
.PD
