.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007 Gunnar Ritter, Freiburg i. Br., Germany
.\"
.\" Sccsid @(#)ckuid.1	1.5 (gritter) 3/4/07
.\"
.\" from OpenSolaris ckuid 1 "14 Sep 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.TH CKUID 1 "3/4/07" "Heirloom Packaging Tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ckuid, erruid, helpuid, valuid \- prompts for and validates a user ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.ad l
.nh
\fBckuid\fR [\fB\-Q\fR] [\fB\-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB\-m\fR] [\fB\-d\fR \fIdefault\fR] [\fB\-h\fR \fIhelp\fR]
[\fB\-e\fR \fIerror\fR] [\fB\-p\fR \fIprompt\fR] [\fB\-k\fR \fIpid\fR [\fB\-s\fR \fIsignal\fR]]
.HP
.PD 0
.ad l
\fBerruid\fR [\fB\-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB\-e\fR \fIerror\fR]
.HP
.PD 0
.ad l
\fBhelpuid\fR [\fB\-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB\-m\fR] [\fB\-h\fR \fIhelp\fR]
.HP
.PD 0
.ad l
\fBvaluid\fR \fIinput\fR
.br
.PD
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBckuid\fR utility prompts a user and validates the response.
It defines, among other things, a prompt message whose response should be an existing user \fBID,\fR text for help and error messages, and a default value (which are returned if the user responds with a RETURN).
.PP
All messages are limited in length to 70 characters and are formatted automatically.
Any white space used in the definition (including NEWLINE) is stripped.
The \fB\-W\fR option cancels the
automatic formatting.
When a tilde is placed at the beginning or end of a message definition, the default text is inserted at that point, allowing both custom text and the default text to be displayed.
.PP
If the prompt, help or error message is not defined, the default message (as defined under \fBNOTES\fR) is displayed.
.PP
Three visual tool modules are linked to the \fBckuid\fR command.
They are \fBerruid\fR (which formats and displays an error message), \fBhelpuid\fR (which formats
and displays a help message), and \fBvaluid\fR (which validates a response).
These modules should be used in conjunction with \fBFML\fR objects.
In this instance,
the \fBFML\fR object defines the prompt.
.PP
The following options and operands are supported:
.TP
\fB\-d\fR\fI default\fR
Defines the default value as \fIdefault\fR.
The default is not validated and so does not have to meet any criteria.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR \fIerror\fR
Defines the error message as \fIerror\fR.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR \fIhelp\fR
Defines the help messages as \fIhelp\fR.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR\fI pid\fR
Specifies that process \fBID\fR \fIpid\fR is to be sent a signal
if the user chooses to abort.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR
Displays a list of all logins when help is requested or when the user makes an error.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR\fI prompt\fR
Defines the prompt message as \fIprompt\fR.
.TP
\fB\-Q\fR
Specifies that quit will not be allowed as a valid response.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR \fIsignal\fR
Specifies that the process \fBID\fR \fIpid\fR defined with
the \fB\-k\fR option is to be sent signal \fIsignal\fR when quit is chosen.
If no signal is specified, SIGTERM is used.
.TP
\fB\-W\fR\fI width\fR
Specifies that prompt, help and error messages will be formatted to a line length of \fIwidth\fR.
.TP
\fB\fIinput\fR
Input to be verified against \fB/etc/passwd\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PD 0
The following exit values are returned:
.TP
.B 0
Successful execution.
.TP
.B 1
\fBEOF\fR on input, or negative width on \fB\-W\fR option, or usage error.
.TP
.B 2
Usage error.
.TP
.B 3
User termination (quit).
.PD
.SH NOTES
The default prompt for \fBckuid\fR is:
.PP
.in +2
.nf
Enter the login name of an existing user [?,q]:
.fi
.in -2
.PP
The default error message is:
.PP
.in +2
.nf
ERROR - Please enter the login name of an existing user.
.fi
.in -2
.PP
If the \fB\-m\fR option is used, the default error message is:
.PP
.in +2
.nf
ERROR: Please enter one of the following login names: <List>
.fi
.in -2
.PP
The default help message is:
.PP
.in +2
.nf
Please enter the login name of an existing user.
.fi
.in -2
.PP
If the \fB\-m\fR option is used, the default help message is:
.PP
.in +2
.nf
Please enter one of the following login names: <List>
.fi
.in -2
.PP
When the quit option is chosen (and allowed), \fBq\fR is returned along with the return code \fB3\fR.
The \fBvaluid\fR module will not produce any output.
It returns \fB0\fR for success and non-zero for failure.
