'\" t
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007 Gunnar Ritter, Freiburg i. Br., Germany
.\"
.\" Sccsid @(#)installf.1m	1.8 (gritter) 2/25/07
.\"
.\" from OpenSolaris installf 1M "16 May 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.TH INSTALLF 1M "2/25/07" "Heirloom Packaging Tools" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
installf \- add a file to the software installation database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.PD 0
.ad l
.nh
\fBinstallf\fR [\fB\-c\fR \fIclass\fR]
.\" [ [\fB\-M\fR] \fB\-R\fR \fIroot_path\fR]
[\fB\-R\fR \fIroot_path\fR]
.\" [\fB\-V\fR \fIfs_file\fR]
\fIpkginst\fR \fIpathname\fR
[\fIftype\fR [\fImajor\fR \fIminor\fR] [\fImode\fR \fIowner\fR \fIgroup\fR]]
.HP
.PD 0
.ad l
\fBinstallf\fR [\fB\-c\fR \fIclass\fR]
.\" [ [\fB\-M\fR] \fB\-R\fR \fIroot_path\fR]
[\fB\-R\fR \fIroot_path\fR]
.\" [\fB\-V\fR \fIfs_file\fR]
\fIpkginst\fR \-
.HP
.PD 0
.ad l
\fBinstallf\fR \fB\-f\fR [\fB\-c\fR \fIclass\fR]
.\" [ [\fB\-M\fR] \fB\-R\fR \fIroot_path\fR]
[\fB\-R\fR \fIroot_path\fR]
.\" [\fB\-V\fR \fIfs_file\fR]
\fIpkginst\fR
.br
.PD
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBinstallf\fR informs the system that a pathname not listed in the
.IR pkgmap (5)
file is being created or modified.
It should be invoked before any file modifications have occurred.
.PP
When the second synopsis is used, the pathname descriptions will be read from standard input.
These descriptions are the same as would be given in the first synopsis but the information is given in the form of a list.
The descriptions should be in the form:
.PP
\fIpathname\fR [ \fIftype\fR [\| \fImajor\fR \fIminor\fR ] [ \fImode\fR \fIowner\fR \fIgroup\fR ]\|]
.PP
After all files have been appropriately created and/or modified, \fBinstallf\fR should be invoked with the \fB\-f\fR synopsis to indicate that installation is final.
Links will be created at this time and, if attribute information for a pathname was not specified during the
original invocation of \fBinstallf\fR, or was not already stored on the system, the current attribute values for the pathname will be stored.
Otherwise, \fBinstallf\fR verifies that attribute values match those given on the command line, making corrections as necessary.
In all
cases, the current content information is calculated and stored appropriately.
.TP 10
\fB\-c\fR \fIclass\fR
Class to which installed objects should be associated.
Default class is \fBnone\fR.
.TP
.B \-f
Indicates that installation is complete.
This option is used with the final invocation of \fBinstallf\fR (for all files of a given class).
.ig
.TP
.B \-M
Instruct \fBinstallf\fR not to use the \fB$\fR\fIroot_path\fR\fB/etc/vfstab\fR file for determining the client's mount points.
This option assumes the mount points are correct on the
server and it behaves consistently with Solaris 2.5 and earlier releases.
..
.TP
\fB\-R\fR \fIroot_path\fR
Define the full path name of a directory to use as the \fIroot_path\fR.
All files, including package system information files, are relocated to a directory tree starting
in the specified \fIroot_path\fR.
.ig
The \fIroot_path\fR can be specified when installing to a client from a server (for example, \fB/export/root/client1\fR).
..
.IP
\fBinstallf\fR inherits the value of the PKG_INSTALL_ROOT environment variable.
(See ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES, below.) If PKG_INSTALL_ROOT is set, such as when the \fB\-R\fR option is used with
.IR pkgadd (1M)
or
.IR pkgrm (1M),
there is no need to use the \fBinstallf\fR \fB\-R\fR option.
.ig
.IP
Note: The root file system of any non-global zones must not be referenced with the \fB\-R\fR option.
Doing so might damage the global zone's file system, might compromise the security of the global zone, and might damage the non-global zone's file system.
See
.IR zones (5).
..
.ig
.TP
\fB\-V\fR \fIfs_file\fR
Specify an alternative \fIfs_file\fR to map the client's file systems.
For example, used in situations where the \fB$\fR\fIroot_path\fR\fB/etc/vfstab\fR file is non-existent or unreliable.
..
.TP 10
\fB\fIpkginst\fR
Name of package instance with which the pathname should be associated.
.TP
\fB\fIpathname\fR
Pathname that is being created or modified.
.TP
\fB\fIftype\fR
A one-character field that indicates the file type.
Possible file types include:
.RS 10
.TP
.PD 0
.B b
block special device
.TP
.B c
character special device
.TP
.B d
directory
.TP
.B e
a file to be edited upon installation or removal
.TP
.B f
a standard executable or data file
.TP
.B l
linked file
.TP
.B p
named pipe
.TP
.B s
symbolic link
.TP
.B v
volatile file (one whose contents are expected to change)
.TP
.B x
an exclusive directory
.PD
.RE
.TP 10
\fB\fImajor\fR
The major device number.
The field is only specified for block or character special devices.
.TP
\fB\fIminor\fR
The minor device number.
The field is only specified for block or character special devices.
.TP
\fB\fImode\fR
The octal mode of the file (for example, 0664).
A question mark (\fB?\fR) indicates that the mode will be left unchanged, implying that the file already exists on the target machine.
This field is not used for linked
or symbolically linked files.
.TP
\fB\fIowner\fR
The owner of the file (for example, \fBbin\fR or \fBroot\fR).
The field is limited to 14 characters in length.
A question mark (\fB?\fR) indicates that the owner will be left unchanged, implying
that the file already exists on the target machine.
This field is not used for linked or symbolically linked files.
.TP
\fB\fIgroup\fR
The group to which the file belongs (for example, \fBbin\fR or \fBsys\fR).
The field is limited to 14 characters in length.
A question mark (\fB?\fR) indicates that the group will be left
unchanged, implying that the file already exists on the target machine.
This field is not used for linked or symbolically linked files.
.SH EXAMPLES
\fBExample 1 \fRThe use of \fBinstallf\fR.
.LP
The following example shows the use of \fBinstallf\fR, invoked from an optional pre-install or post-install script:
.PP
.in +2
.nf
\fB#create /dev/xt directory
#(needs to be done before drvinstall)
installf $PKGINST /dev/xt d 755 root sys ||
	exit 2
majno=`/usr/sbin/drvinstall \fR\fB\-m\fR\fB /etc/master.d/xt
\fR\fB\-d\fR\fB $BASEDIR/data/xt.o \fR\fB\-v\fR\fB1.0` ||
	exit 2
i=00
while [ $i \(milt $limit ]
do
for j in 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
do
echo /dev/xt$i$j c $majno `expr $i ? 8 + $j`
644 root sys |
echo /dev/xt$i$j=/dev/xt/$i$j
done
i=`expr $i + 1`
[ $i \(mile 9 ] && i="0$i" #add leading zero
done | installf $PKGINST \(mi || exit 2
# finalized installation, create links
installf \fR\fB\-f\fR\fB $PKGINST || exit 2\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
\fBinstallf\fR inherits the value of the following environment variable.
This variable is set when
.IR pkgadd (1M)
or
.IR pkgrm (1M)
is invoked with the \fB\-R\fR option.
.TP
.B PKG_INSTALL_ROOT
If present, defines the full path name of a directory to use as the system's PKG_INSTALL_ROOT path.
All product and package information files are then looked
for in the directory tree, starting with the specified PKG_INSTALL_ROOT path.
If not present, the default system path of \fB/\fR is used.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR pkginfo (1),
.IR pkgmk (1),
.IR pkgparam (1),
.IR pkgproto (1),
.IR pkgtrans (1),
.IR pkgadd (1M),
.IR pkgask (1M),
.IR pkgchk (1M),
.IR pkgrm (1M),
.IR removef (1M),
.IR pkgmap (5)
.SH NOTES
When \fIftype\fR is specified, all applicable fields, as shown below, must be defined:
.PP
.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fIftype\fRRequired Fields
\fBp\fR, \fBx\fR, \fBd\fR, \fBf\fR, \fBv\fR, or \fBe\fR\fBmode  owner  group\fR
\fBc\fR or \fBb\fR\fBmajor  minor mode  owner  group\fR
.TE
.LP
The \fBinstallf\fR command will create directories, named pipes and special devices on the original invocation.
Links are created when \fBinstallf\fR is invoked with the \fB\-f\fR option to indicate installation is complete.
.PP
Links should be specified as \fIpath1\fR\fB=\fR\fIpath2.\fR \fIpath1\fR indicates the destination and \fIpath2\fR indicates the source file.
.PP
Files installed with \fBinstallf\fR will be placed in the class \fBnone\fR, unless a class is defined with the command.
Subsequently, they will be removed when the associated package is deleted.
If this file should not be deleted at the same time as the package, be certain
to assign it to a class which is ignored at removal time.
If special action is required for the file before removal, a class must be defined with the command and an appropriate class action script delivered with the package.
.PP
When classes are used, \fBinstallf\fR must be used in one of the following forms:
.PP
.in +2
.nf
installf \fB\-c\fR class1 .\|.\|.\|
installf \fB\-f\fR \fB\-c\fR class1 .\|.\|.\|
installf \fB\-c\fR class2 .\|.\|.\|
installf \fB\-f\fR \fB\-c\fR class2 .\|.\|.\|
.fi
.in -2
