.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007 Gunnar Ritter, Freiburg i. Br., Germany
.\"
.\" Sccsid @(#)pkginfo.5	1.9 (gritter) 2/27/07
.\"
.\" from OpenSolaris pkginfo 4 "24 Mar 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.TH PKGINFO 5 "2/27/07" "Heirloom Packaging Tools" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
pkginfo \- package characteristics file
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpkginfo\fR is an \fBASCII\fR file that describes the characteristics of the package along with information that helps control the flow of installation.
It is created by the software package developer.
.PP
Each entry in the \fBpkginfo\fR file is a line that establishes the value of a parameter in the following form:
.RS
.sp
PARAM="\fIvalue\fR"
.RE
.PP
There is no required order in which the parameters must be specified within the file.
The \fBPKG\fR, \fBNAME\fR, \fBARCH\fR, \fBVERSION\fR and \fBCATEGORY\fR parameters are mandatory.
Other parameters are optional.
.ig
.PP
\fBpkginfo\fR provides optional parameters and an environment variable in support of the zones (multiple Solaris environments) feature.
See
.IR zones (5).
..
.PP
The following paramaters are mandatory:
.TP 11
.B ARCH
A comma-separated list of alphanumeric tokens that indicate the architecture associated with the package.
The
.IR pkgmk (1)
tool can be used to create
or modify this value when actually building the package.
The maximum length of a token is 16 characters and it cannot include a comma.
.ig
.IP
Solaris's installation software meaningfully uses only one architecture token of the form:
.RS
.sp
.nf
<\fIinstruction_set_architecture\fR>[.<\fIplatform_group\fR>]
.fi
.RE
.IP
where \fIplatform_group\fR is intended only for Solaris installation packages.
Third party application software should restrict itself to \fBARCH\fR values from the following Solaris-supported instruction set architectures (\fBuname -p\fR): \fBsparc\fR, \fBi386\fR, and \fBppc\fR.
Examples of Solaris' platform groups (\fBuname -m\fR) are \fBsun4u\fR for the \fBSPARC\fR instruction set and \fBi86pc\fR for the i386 instruction set.
See
.IR uname (1)
and
.IR isalist (1)
for more
details.
..
.TP
.B CATEGORY
A comma-separated list of categories under which a package can be displayed.
A package must at least belong to the system or application category.
Categories are case-insensitive and can contain only alphanumerics.
Each category is limited in length to 16 characters.
.TP
.B NAME
Text that specifies the package name (maximum length of 256 \fBASCII\fR characters).
Use the \fBNAME\fR parameter as the foundation for describing the functionality and purpose of the package; spell out any acronyms and avoid internal product/project code
names.
The \fBDESC\fR parameter can then be used to expand the descriptive information.
Use the \fBNAME\fR parameter to state as specifically as possible the use of the package, why a user would need to load it, and so on.
.TP
.B PKG
Abbreviation for the package being installed.
All characters in the abbreviation must be alphanumeric.
You can also use the \fB\(mi\fR and \fB+\fR characters in the abbreviation.
The first character cannot be numeric, a \fB+\fR or a \fB\-\fR.
.IP
The abbreviation is limited to a maximum length of 32 characters.
\fBinstall\fR, \fBnew\fR, and \fBall\fR are reserved abbreviations.
It is customary to make the first four letters unique to your company, such as the company's stock symbol.
.TP
.B VERSION
Text that specifies the current version associated with the software package.
The maximum length is 256 \fBASCII\fR characters and the first character cannot be a left parenthesis.
The
.IR pkgmk (1)
tool can be used to create or modify this value when actually building the package.
.ig
Current Solaris software practice is to assign this parameter monotonically increasing Dewey decimal values of the form:
.sp
.RS
.nf
<\fImajor_revision\fR>.<\fIminor_revision\fR>[.<\fImicro_revision\fR>]
.fi
.RE
.IP
where all the revision fields are integers.
The versioning fields can be extended to an arbitrary string of numbers in Dewey-decimal format, if necessary.
..
.PP
The following parameters are optional:
.TP 11
.B BASEDIR
The pathname to a default directory where "relocatable" files can be installed.
If blank, the package is not relocatable and any files that have relative pathnames are not installed.
An administrator can override the default directory.
.TP
.B CLASSES
A space-separated list of classes defined for a package.
The order of the list determines the order in which the classes are installed.
Classes listed first are installed first (on a media by media basis).
This parameter can be modified by the request script.
.TP
.B DESC
Text that describes the package (maximum length of 256 \fBASCII\fR characters).
This parameter value is used to provide the installer with a description of what the package contains and should build on the description provided in the \fBNAME\fR parameter.
Try to make the two parameters work together so that a \fBpkginfo\fR \fB\-l\fR provides a fairly comprehensive textual description of the package.
.TP
.B EMAIL
An electronic address where further information is available or bugs can be reported (maximum length of 256 \fBASCII\fR characters).
.TP
.B HOTLINE
Phone number and/or mailing address where further information can be received or bugs can be reported (maximum length of 256 \fBASCII\fR characters).
.TP
.B INTONLY
Indicates that the package should only be installed interactively when set to any non-null value.
.TP
.B ISTATES
A list of allowable run states for package installation (for example, "\fBS s 1\fR" allows run states of \fBS\fR, \fBs\fR or \fB1\fR).
The
.\" Solaris
operating environment supports the run levels \fBs\fR, \fBS\fR, \fB0\fR, \fB1\fR, \fB2\fR, \fB3\fR, \fB5\fR, and \fB6\fR.
Applicable run levels for this parameter are \fBs\fR, \fBS\fR, \fB1\fR, \fB2\fR, and \fB3\fR.
See
.IR init (1M)
for details.
.TP
.B MAXINST
The maximum number of package instances that should be allowed on a machine at the same time.
By default, only one instance of a package is allowed.
This parameter must be set in order to have multiple instances of a package.
In order to support multiple instances of packages (for
example, packages that differ in their \fBARCH\fR or \fBVERSION\fR parameter value), the value of this parameter must be high enough to allow for all instances of a given package, including multiple versions coexisting on a software server.
.TP
.B ORDER
A list of classes defining the order in which they should be put on the medium.
Used by
.IR pkgmk (1)
in creating the package.
Classes not defined in
this field are placed on the medium using the standard ordering procedures.
.TP
.B PSTAMP
Production stamp used to mark the
.IR pkgmap (5)
file on the output volumes.
Provides a means for distinguishing between production copies of a version
if more than one is in use at a time.
If \fBPSTAMP\fR is not defined, the default is used.
The default consists of the UNIX system machine name followed by the string "\fIYYYYMMDDHHMMSS\fR" (year, month, date, hour, minutes, seconds).
.TP
.B RSTATES
A list of allowable run states for package removal (for example, "\fBS s 1\fR" allows run states of \fBS\fR, \fBs\fR or \fB1\fR).
The
.\" Solaris
operating environment supports the run levels \fBs\fR, \fBS\fR, \fB0\fR, \fB1\fR, \fB2\fR, \fB3\fR, \fB5\fR, and \fB6\fR.
Applicable run levels for this parameter are \fBs\fR, \fBS\fR, \fB1\fR, \fB2\fR, and \fB3\fR See
.IR init (1M)
for details.
.ig
.TP
.B SUNW_ISA
Solaris-only optional parameter that indicates a software package contains 64-bit objects if it is set to \fBsparcv9\fR.
If this parameter is not set, the default \fBISA\fR (instruction set architecture) is set to the value of the \fBARCH\fR parameter.
.TP
.B SUNW_LOC
Solaris-only optional parameter used to indicate a software package containing localization files for a given product or application.
The parameter value is a comma-separated list of locales supported by a package.
It is only used for packages containing localization files, typically
the message catalogues.
The allowable values for this string field are those found in the table of Standard Locale Names located in the .
.PP
.in +2
.nf
SUNW_LOC="<\fIlocale_name\fR>,<\fIlocale_name\fR>,..,\e
<\fIlocale_name\fR>"
.fi
.in -2
where
.PP
.in +2
.nf
<\fIlocale_name\fR>::= <\fIlanguage\fR>[_<\fIterritory\fR>]\e
[.<\fIcodeset\fR>]
<\fIlanguage\fR>::= the set of names from ISO 639
<\fIterritory\fR>::= the set of territories specified
in ISO 3166
<\fIcodeset\fR>::= is a string corresponding to the coded
character set
.fi
.in -2
Since a value of C specifies the traditional UNIX system behavior (American English, en_US), packages belonging to the C locale are viewed as non-localized packages, and thus must not have \fBSUNW_LOC\fR and \fBSUNW_PKGLIST\fR included in their \fBpkginfo\fR file.
See also the \fBSUNW_LOC\fR parameter in
.IR packagetoc (5)
and
.IR setlocale (3C)
for more information.
This keyword is not recognized by the add-on software utility Software Manager.
.TP
.B SUNW_PKG_DIR
A value set by \fBpkgadd\fR that contains the location of the installing package.
This value is provided to any install time package procedure scripts that need to know where the installing package is located.
This parameter should never be set manually from within
a \fBpkginfo\fR file.
.TP
.B SUNW_PKG_ALLZONES
Defines whether a package, when installed, must be installed and must be identical in all zones.
Assigned value can be \fBtrue\fR or \fBfalse\fR.
The default value is \fBfalse\fR.
The setting of \fBSUNW_PKG_ALLZONES\fR has the
effects described below.
.sp
.sp
If set to \fBtrue\fR, the following conditions are in effect:
.sp
.sp
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The package must be installed in the global zone.
.sp
.RE
.sp
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The package must be installed in any non-global zone that is created.
.sp
.RE
.sp
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The package must be identical in all zones.
.sp
.RE
.sp
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The package can be installed only by the global zone administrator.
.sp
.RE
.sp
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The package cannot be installed by a non-global zone administrator.
.sp
.RE
If set to \fBfalse\fR, the following conditions are in effect:
.sp
.sp
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The package is not required to be installed in all zones.
.sp
.RE
.sp
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The package is not required to be identical across all zones.
.sp
.RE
.sp
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The package can be installed by the global zone administrator or by a non-global zone administrator.
.sp
.RE
Packages that must be identical across all zones must set this variable to \fBtrue\fR.
This would include packages that deliver components that are part of the core operating system, or that are dependent on interfaces exported by the core operating system, or that deliver device
drivers, or runtime libraries that use or export operating system interfaces that are not guaranteed to be stable across minor releases.
.sp
.sp
Packages that deliver components that are not part of the core operating system (such as application programs) that can be different between any two zones must set this variable to \fBfalse\fR.
.sp
.sp
With respect to \fBSUNW_PKG_ALLZONES\fR, keep in mind the following:
.sp
.sp
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Use of \fBpkgadd\fR in the global zone installs packages in all zones unless \fB\-G\fR is specified, in which case packages are installed in the global zone only.
The setting of \fBSUNW_PKG_ALLZONES\fR does not change this behavior.
For example,
a package that has a setting of \fBSUNW_PKG_ALLZONES=false\fR is not installed in the global zone only.
.sp
.RE
.sp
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The \fBSUNW_PKG_ALLZONES\fR attribute controls whether a package \fImust\fR be installed in all zones (and must be the same in all zones) when it is installed.
.sp
.RE
.sp
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Use of the \fB\-G\fR option to \fBpkgadd\fR with a package that has \fBSUNW_PKG_ALLZONES=true\fR is an error and causes installation of that package to fail.
.sp
.RE
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SUNW_PKG_HOLLOW
Defines whether a package should be visible in any non-global zone if that package is required to be installed and be identical in all zones (for example, a package that has \fBSUNW_PKG_ALLZONES=true\fR).
Assigned value can be \fBtrue\fR or \fBfalse\fR.
The default value is \fBfalse\fR.
The package is not required to be installed, but if it is installed, the setting of \fBSUNW_PKG_HOLLOW\fR has the effects described below.
.sp
.sp
If set to \fBfalse\fR, the following conditions are in effect:
.sp
.sp
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If installed in the global zone, the package content and installation information are required in all non-global zones.
.sp
.RE
.sp
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Software delivered by the package is visible in all non-global zones.
An example of such a a package is the package that delivers the
.IR truss (1)
command.
.sp
.RE
If set to \fBtrue\fR, the following conditions are in effect:
.sp
.sp
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The package content is not delivered on any non-global zone.
However, the package installation information is required on all non-global zones.
.sp
.RE
.sp
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The package delivers software that should not be visible in all non-global zones.
Examples include kernel drivers and system configuration files that work only in the global zone.
This setting allows the non-global zone to resolve dependencies on packages that are installed only
in the global zone without actually installing the package data.
.sp
.RE
.sp
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
In the global zone, the package is recognized as having been installed, and all components of the package are installed.
Directories are created, files are installed, and class action and other scripts are run as appropriate when the package is installed.
.sp
.RE
.sp
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
In a non-global zone, the package is recognized as having been installed, but no components of the package are installed.
No directories are created, no files are installed, and no class action or other install scripts are run when the package is installed.
.sp
.RE
.sp
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
When removed from the global zone, the package is recognized as having been completely installed.
Appropriate directories and files are removed, and class action or other install scripts are run when the package is removed.
.sp
.RE
.sp
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
When removed from a non-global zone, the package is recognized as not having been completely installed.
No directories are removed, no files are removed, and no class action or other install scripts are run when the package is removed.
.sp
.RE
.sp
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The package is recognized as being installed in all zones for purposes of dependency checking by other packages that rely on this package being installed.
.sp
.RE
If \fBSUNW_PKG_ALLZONES\fR is set to \fBfalse\fR, the value of this variable has no meaning.
It is a package construction error to set \fBSUNW_PKG_ALLZONES\fR to \fBfalse\fR, then set \fBSUNW_PKG_HOLLOW\fR to \fBtrue\fR.
.TP
.B SUNW_PKG_THISZONE
Defines whether a package must be installed in the current zone only.
Assigned value can be \fBtrue\fR or \fBfalse\fR.
The default value is \fBfalse\fR.
The setting of \fBSUNW_PKG_THISZONE\fR has the effects described below.
.sp
.sp
If set to true, the following conditions are in effect:
.sp
.sp
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The package is installed in the current zone only.
.sp
.RE
.sp
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If installed in the global zone, the package is not added to any currently existing or yet-to-be-created non-global zones.
This is the same behavior that would occur if the \fB\-G\fR option were specified to \fBpkgadd\fR.
.sp
.RE
If set to false, the following conditions are in effect:
.sp
.sp
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If \fBpkgadd\fR is run in a non-global zone, the package is installed in the current zone only.
.sp
.RE
.sp
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If \fBpkgadd\fR is run in the global zone, the package is installed in the global zone, and is also installed in all currently installed non-global zones.
In addition, the package will be propagated to all future, newly installed non-global zones.
.sp
.RE
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
.B SUNW_PKGLIST
Solaris-only optional parameter used to associate a localization package to the package(s) from which it is derived.
It is required whenever the \fBSUNW_LOC\fR parameter is defined.
This parameter value is an comma-separated list of package abbreviations of the form:
.PP
.in +2
.nf
SUNW_PKGLIST="\fIpkg1\fR[\fI:version\fR],\fIpkg2\fR[:\fIversion\fR],..."
.fi
.in -2
where \fIversion\fR (if specified) should match the version string in the base package specified (see \fBVERSION\fR parameter in this manual page).
When in use, \fBSUNW_PKGLIST\fR helps determine the order of package installation.
The packages
listed in the parameter are installed before the localization package in question is installed.
When left blank, \fBSUNW_PKGLIST="\|"\fR, the package is assumed to be required for the locale to function correctly.
See the \fBSUNW_PKGLIST\fR parameter in
.IR packagetoc (5)
for more information.
This keyword is not recognized by the add-on software utility Software Manager.
.TP
.B SUNW_PKGTYPE
Solaris-only parameter for Sun internal use only.
Required for packages part of the Solaris operating environment releases which install into the \fB/\fR, \fB/usr\fR, \fB/usr/kvm\fR, and \fB/usr/openwin\fR file systems.
The The
Solaris operating environment installation software must know which packages are part of which file system to properly install a server/client configuration.
The currently allowable values for this parameter are \fBroot\fR, \fBusr\fR, \fBkvm\fR, and \fBow\fR.
If no \fBSUNW_PKGTYPE\fR parameter is present, the package is assumed to be of \fBBASEDIR=\fR\fI/opt\fR.
\fBSUNW_PKGTYPE\fR is optional only for packages which install into the \fB/opt\fR name space as is the case for the
majority of Solaris add-on software.
See the \fBSUNW_PKGTYPE\fR parameter in
.IR packagetoc (5)
for further information.
.TP
.B SUNW_PKGVERS
Solaris-only parameter indicating of version of the Solaris operating environment package interface.
.PP
.in +2
.nf
SUNW_PKGVERS="<\fIsunw_package_version\fR>"
.fi
.in -2
where <\fIunw_package_version\fR> has the form \fIx.y[.z]\fR and \fIx\fR, \fIy\fR, and z are integers.
For packages built for this release and previous releases, use \fBSUNW_PKGVERS="\fI1.0\fR"\fR.
.TP
.B SUNW_PRODNAME
Solaris-only parameter indicating the name of the product this package is a part of or comprises (maximum length of 256 \fBASCII\fR characters).
A few examples of currently used \fBSUNW_PRODNAME\fR values are: \fB"SunOS"\fR, \fB"OpenWindows"\fR, and \fB"Common Desktop Environment"\fR.
.TP
.B SUNW_PRODVERS
Solaris-only parameter indicating the version or release of the product described in \fBSUNW_PRODNAME\fR (maximum length of 256 \fBASCII\fR characters).
For example, where \fBSUNW_PRODNAME="\fR\fISunOS\fR\fB"\fR,
and the Solaris 2.x Beta release, this string could be \fB"5.x BETA"\fR, while for the Solaris 2.x FCS release, the string would be \fB"5.x"\fR.
For Solaris 10, the string is \fB"5.10"\fR.
If the \fBSUNW_PRODNAME\fR parameter is \fINULL\fR, so should be the \fBSUNW_PRODVERS\fR parameter.
..
.TP
.B ULIMIT
If set, this parameter is passed as an argument to the
.IR ulimit (1)
command (see
.IR limit (1)),
which establishes the maximum size of a file during installation.
.TP
.B VENDOR
Used to identify the vendor that holds the software copyright (maximum length of 256 \fBASCII\fR characters).
.TP
.B VSTOCK
The vendor stock number, if any, that identifies this product (maximum length of 256 \fBASCII\fR characters).
.ig
.PP
For further discussion of the zones-related parameters described above, see .
..
.ig
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The following environment variables are available only to package class action scripts and to checkinstall, preinstall, postinstall scripts.
.TP
.B SUNW_PKG_INSTALL_ZONENAME
This variable is set only during the initial installation of a zone.
.IP
If this variable is not set, the system does not support the
.IR zones (5)
feature.
In this case, the package is being installed to or removed from a system that
is not configured for zones.
.IP
If the variable is set, and equal to \fBglobal\fR, the package is being installed to or removed from the global zone.
.IP
If the variable is set and not equal to \fBglobal\fR, the package is being installed to or removed from the non-global zone named by the contents of the environment variable \fB${\fRSUNW_PKG_INSTALL_ZONENAME\fB}\fR.
.TP
.B PKG_INIT_INSTALL
This variable is set only during an initial installation of Solaris, such as installing Solaris from a CD, DVD, or net install image.
.IP
If this variable is set and equal to \fBTRUE\fR, then the package is being installed as part of an initial installation of Solaris.
.IP
If this variable is not set, or set and not equal to \fBTRUE\fR, then the package is not being installed as part of an initial installation of Solaris.
.PP
The following code excerpt illustrates the semantics of the preceding environment variables.
.PP
.RS
.nf
if [ $PKG_INIT_INSTALL != "" ] ; then
# Package being installed as part of initial
# installation of Solaris.
elif [ $SUNW_PKG_INSTALL_ZONENAME != "" ] ; then
if [ $SUNW_PKG_INSTALL_ZONENAME != "global" ] ; then
# Package being installed as part of initial installation
# of non-global zone $SUNW_PKG_INSTALL_ZONENAME
else
# Package being installed as part of initial installation
# of a global zone.
fi
else
# Package not being installed as part of initial installation of
# Solaris and package not being installed as part of initial
# installation of non-global zone.
fi
.fi
.RE
..
.SH EXAMPLES
\fBExample 1 \fRA Sample \fBpkginfo\fR File
.LP
Here is a sample \fBpkginfo\fR file:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.\"SUNW_PRODNAME="SunOS"
.\"SUNW_PRODVERS="5.5"
.\"SUNW_PKGTYPE="usr"
.\"SUNW_PKG_ALLZONES=false
.\"SUNW_PKG_HOLLOW=false
PKG="SUNWesu"
NAME="Extended System Utilities"
VERSION="11.5.1"
ARCH="sparc"
VENDOR="Sun Microsystems, Inc."
HOTLINE="Please contact your local service provider"
EMAIL=""
VSTOCK="0122c3f5566"
CATEGORY="system"
ISTATES="S 2"
RSTATES="S 2"
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR pkgmk (1),
.IR uname (1),
.IR init (1M),
.IR pkgmap (5)
.SH NOTES
Developers can define their own installation parameters by adding a definition to this file.
A developer-defined parameter must begin with a capital letter.
.PP
Trailing white space after any parameter value is ignored.
For example, \fBVENDOR="Sun Microsystems, Inc."\fR is the same as \fBVENDOR="Sun Microsystems, Inc. "\fR.
