.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007 Gunnar Ritter, Freiburg i. Br., Germany
.\"
.\" Sccsid @(#)removef.1m	1.7 (gritter) 2/25/07
.\"
.\" from OpenSolaris removef 1M "16 May 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.TH REMOVEF 1M "2/25/07" "Heirloom Packaging Tools" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
removef \- remove a file from software database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.PD 0
.ad l
.nh
\fBremovef\fR
.\" [ [\fB\-M\fR] \fB\-R\fR \fIroot_path\fR]
[\fB\-R\fR \fIroot_path\fR]
.\" [\fB\-V\fR \fIfs_file\fR]
\fIpkginst\fR \fIpath\fR...
.HP
.PD 0
.ad l
\fBremovef\fR
.\" [ [\fB\-M\fR] \fB\-R\fR \fIroot_path\fR] [\fB\-V\fR \fIfs_file\fR]
[\fB\-R\fR \fIroot_path\fR]
\fB\-f\fR \fIpkginst\fR
.br
.PD
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBremovef\fR informs the system that the user, or software, intends to remove a pathname. Output from \fBremovef\fR is the list of input pathnames that may be safely removed (no other packages
have a dependency on them).
.PP
The following options and operands are supported:
.TP
.B \-f
After all files have been processed, \fBremovef\fR should be invoked with the \fB\-f\fR option to indicate that the removal phase is complete.
.ig
.TP
.B \-M
Instruct \fBremovef\fR not to use the \fB$\fR\fIroot_path\fR\fB/etc/vfstab\fR file for determining the client's mount points. This option assumes the mount points are correct on the
server and it behaves consistently with Solaris 2.5 and earlier releases.
..
.TP
\fB\-R\fR \fIroot_path\fR
Define the full path name of a directory to use as the \fIroot_path\fR. All files, including package system information files, are relocated to a directory tree starting
in the specified \fIroot_path\fR. The \fIroot_path\fR may be specified when installing to a client from a server (for example, \fB/export/root/client1\fR).
.IP
\fBremovef\fR inherits the value of the PKG_INSTALL_ROOT environment variable. (See ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES, below.) If PKG_INSTALL_ROOT is set, such as when the \fB\-R\fR option is used with
.IR pkgadd (1M)
or
.IR pkgrm (1M),
there is no need to use the \fBremovef\fR \fB\-R\fR option.
.ig
.IP
Note: The root file system of any non-global zones must not be referenced with the \fB\-R\fR option. Doing so might damage the global zone's file system, might compromise the security of the global zone, and might damage the non-global zone's file system. See
.IR zones (5).
.TP
\fB\-V\fR \fIfs_file\fR
Specify an alternative \fIfs_file\fR to map the client's file systems. For example, used in situations where the \fB$\fR\fIroot_path\fR\fB/etc/vfstab\fR file is non-existent or unreliable.
..
.TP
\fB\fIpath\fR
The pathname to be removed.
.TP
\fB\fIpkginst\fR
The package instance from which the pathname is being removed.
.SH EXAMPLES
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing \fBremovef\fR
.LP
The following example uses the \fBremovef\fR command in an optional pre-install script:
.PP
.in +2
.nf
echo "The following files are no longer part of this package
and are being removed."
removef $PKGINST /dev/xt[0-9][0-9][0-9] |
while read pathname
do
echo "$pathname"
rm \fB\-f\fR $pathname
done
removef \fB\-f\fR $PKGINST || exit 2
.fi
.in -2
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
\fBremovef\fR inherits the value of the following environment variable. This variable is set when
.IR pkgadd (1M)
or
.IR pkgrm (1M)
is invoked with the \fB\-R\fR option.
.TP
.B PKG_INSTALL_ROOT
If present, defines the full path name of a directory to use as the system's PKG_INSTALL_ROOT path. All product and package information files are then looked
for in the directory tree, starting with the specified PKG_INSTALL_ROOT path. If not present, the default system path of \fB/\fR is used.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR pkginfo (1),
.IR pkgmk (1),
.IR pkgparam (1),
.IR pkgproto (1),
.IR pkgtrans (1),
.IR installf (1M),
.IR pkgadd (1M),
.IR pkgask (1M),
.IR pkgchk (1M),
.IR pkgrm (1M)
