.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007 Gunnar Ritter, Freiburg i. Br., Germany
.\"
.\" Sccsid @(#)comb.1	1.9 (gritter) 3/23/07
.\"
.\" from OpenSolaris sccs-comb 1 "1 Nov 1999" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.TH COMB 1 "3/23/07" "Heirloom Development Tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
comb \- combine SCCS deltas
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.ad l
.nh
\fBcomb\fR
[\fB\-o\fR]
[\fB\-s\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR\fIsid\fR]
[\fB\-c\fR\fIsid-list\fR]
\fIs.filename\fR...
.br
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcomb\fR generates a shell script (see 
\fIsh\fR(1))
that you can use to reconstruct the indicated \fBs.\fRfiles.
This script is written to the standard output.
.PP
If a directory name is used in place of the \fIs.filename\fR argument, the \fIcomb\fR command applies to
all \fBs.\fRfiles in that directory.
Unreadable \fBs.\fRfiles produce an error; processing continues with the next file
(if any).
The use of `\fB\(mi\fR' as the \fIs.filename\fR argument indicates that the names of files are to be read
from the standard input, one \fBs.\fRfile per line.
.PP
If no options are specified, \fIcomb\fR preserves only
the most recent (leaf) delta in a branch, and the minimal number of ancestors
needed to preserve the history.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR
For each `\fBget \fR\fB\-e\fR'
generated, access the reconstructed file at the release of the delta to
be created.
Otherwise, the reconstructed file is accessed at the most recent
ancestor.
The use of \fB\-o\fR may decrease the size of the reconstructed \fBs.\fRfile.
It may also alter the shape of the delta tree of the original
file.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR
Generate scripts
to gather statistics, rather than combining deltas.
When run, the shell
scripts report: the file name, size (in blocks) after combining, original
size (also in blocks), and the percentage size change, computed by the formula: 
.sp
100 * ( \fIoriginal\fR\fB \(mi \fR\fIcombined\fR\fB ) / \fR\fIoriginal\fR\fB\fR
.sp
This option can be used to calculate the space that will be saved,
before actually doing the combining.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR\fISID\fR
The \s-1SID\s+1 of the oldest delta
to be preserved.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR\fIsid-list\fR
Include the indicated list of deltas.
All other deltas
are omitted.
\fIsid-list\fR is a comma-separated list
of \s-1SCCS\s+1 delta \s-1IDs\s+1 (SIDs).
To specify a range of deltas, use a `\fB\(mi\fR' separator instead of a comma, between two \fBSIDs\fR in the list.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 14
\fBs.\|COMB\fR
reconstructed \s-1SCCS\s+1 file
.TP
\fBcomb?????\fR
temporary file
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
admin(1), 
delta(1), 
help(1), 
prs(1), 
sh(1),
sccsfile(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
Use the \s-1SCCS\s+1 \fIhelp\fR
command for explanations (see 
\fIhelp\fR(1)).
.SH NOTES
\fIcomb\fR may rearrange the shape of the tree of deltas.
It may not save any space; in fact, it is possible for the reconstructed
file to actually be larger than the original.
