.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007 Gunnar Ritter, Freiburg i. Br., Germany
.\"
.\" Sccsid @(#)help.1	1.6 (gritter) 2/1/07
.\"
.\" from OpenSolaris sccs-help 1 "24 Feb 1998" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.TH HELP 1 "2/1/07" "Heirloom Development Tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
help \- ask for help regarding SCCS error or warning messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBhelp\fR [\fIargument\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fIhelp\fR utility retrieves information to further explain errors messages and warnings from \s-1SCCS\s+1 commands.
It also provides some information about \s-1SCCS\s+1 command usage.
If no arguments are given, \fIhelp\fR prompts for one.
.PP
An \fIargument\fR may be a message number (which normally appears in parentheses following each \s-1SCCS\s+1 error or warning message), or an \s-1SCCS\s+1 command name.
\fIhelp\fR responds with an explanation of the message or a usage line for the command.
.PP
When all else fails, try `\fBhelp stuck\fR'.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
\fB/usr/ccs/lib/help\fR
directory containing files of message text
