.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007 Gunnar Ritter, Freiburg i. Br., Germany
.\"
.\" Sccsid @(#)val.1	1.10 (gritter) 3/23/07
.\"
.\" from OpenSolaris sccs-val 1 "30 Sep 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.TH VAL 1 "3/23/07" "Heirloom Development Tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
val \- validate an SCCS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
\fBval\fR \fB\-\fR
.HP
.ad l
.nh
\fBval\fR [\fB\-s\fR]
[\fB\-m\fR\fIname\fR] [\fB\-r\fR\fIsid\fR]
[\fB\-y\fR\fItype\fR] \fIs.filename\fR...
.br
.PD
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIval\fR utility determines if the specified \fBs.\fRfiles meet the characteristics specified by the indicated arguments.
\fIval\fR can process up to 50 files on a single command line.
.PP
\fIval\fR has a special argument, `\fB\(mi\fR', which reads the standard input until the end-of-file condition is detected.
Each line read is independently processed as if it were a command line argument list.
.PP
\fIval\fR generates diagnostic messages on the standard output for each command line and file processed and also returns a single 8\(mibit code upon exit as described below.
.TP 12
\fB\-s\fR
Silent.
Suppresses the normal error or warning messages.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR\fIname\fR
Compares \fIname\fR with the \fB%\&M%\fR ID keyword in the \fBs.\fRfile.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR\fIsid\fR
Checks to see if the indicated \s-1SID\s+1 is ambiguous, invalid, or absent from the \fBs.\fRfile.
.TP
\fB\-y\fR\fItype\fR
Compares \fItype\fR with the \fB%\&Y%\fR ID keyword.
.PP
The 8-bit code returned by \fIval\fR is a disjunction of the possible errors, that is, it can be interpreted as a bit string where (moving from left to right) the bits set are interpreted as follows:
.PP
.in +12
.nf
bit 0 = missing file argument
bit 1 = unknown or duplicate option
bit 2 = corrupted s.file
bit 3 = can not open file or file not in s.file format
bit 4 = the SCCS delta ID (SID) is invalid or ambiguous
bit 5 = the SID does not exist
bit 6 = mismatch between %\&Y% and \-y argument
bit 7 = mismatch between %\&M% and \-m argument
.fi
.in -12
.PP
\fIval\fR can process two or more files on a given command line, and in turn can process multiple command lines (when reading the standard input).
In these cases, an aggregate code is returned which is the logical \fBOR\fR of the codes generated for each command line and file processed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
admin(1), 
delta(1), 
get(1), 
help(1), 
prs(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Use the SCCS \fIhelp\fR command for explanations (see 
\fIhelp\fR(1)).
