.\"
.\" Sccsid @(#)man.7	1.4 (gritter) 7/21/03
.\"
.\" Derived from Unix 7th Edition man(7)
.\"
.\" Copyright(C) Caldera International Inc. 2001-2002. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"   Redistributions of source code and documentation must retain the
.\"    above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
.\"    disclaimer.
.\"   Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"   All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed or owned by Caldera
.\"      International, Inc.
.\"   Neither the name of Caldera International, Inc. nor the names of
.\"    other contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" USE OF THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED FOR UNDER THIS LICENSE BY CALDERA
.\" INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL CALDERA INTERNATIONAL, INC. BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE,
.\" EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH MAN 7 "7/21/03" "Heirloom Toolchest" "Headers, Tables and Macros"
.SH NAME
man \- macros to typeset manual
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
nroff  \-man\ 
file ...
.PP
.B
troff  \-man\ 
file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
These macros are used to lay out pages of this manual.
.PP
Any text argument
.I t
may be zero to six words.
Quotes may be used to include blanks in a `word'.
If 
.I text
is empty,
the special treatment is applied to
the next input line with text to be printed.
In this way
.BR . I
may be used to italicize a whole line, or
.BR . SM
followed by
.BR . B
to make small bold letters.
.PP
A prevailing indent distance is remembered between
successive indented paragraphs,
and is reset to default value upon reaching a non-indented paragraph.
Default units for indents
.I i
are ens.
.PP
Type font and size are reset to default values
before each paragraph, and after processing
font and size setting macros.
.PP
These strings are predefined by
.BR \-man :
.IP \e*R
.if t `\*R', `(Reg)' in
.if t .I nroff.
.if n `(Reg)', trademark symbol in
.if n .I troff.
.IP \e*S
Change to default type size.
.SH REQUESTS
.ad l
.ta \w'.TH n c d x s 'u +\w'Cause 'u +\w'Argument\ 'u
.di xx
			\ka
.br
.di
.in \nau
.ti 0
Request	Cause	If no	Explanation
.ti 0
	Break	Argument
.ti 0
\&.B \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.*	Text
.I t
is bold.
.ti 0
\&.BI \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Join
words of
.I t
alternating bold and italic.
.ti 0
\&.BR \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Join
words of
.I t
alternating bold and Roman.
.ti 0
\&.DT	no	.5i 1i...	Restore default tabs.
.ti 0
\&.HP \fIi\fR	yes	\fIi\fR=p.i.*	Set prevailing indent to
.I i.
Begin paragraph with hanging indent.
.ti 0
\&.I \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Text
.I t
is italic.
.ti 0
\&.IB \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Join
words of
.I t
alternating italic and bold.
.ti 0
\&.IP \fIx i\fR	yes	\fIx\fR=""	Same as .TP with tag
.I x.
.ti 0
\&.IR \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Join
words of
.I t
alternating italic and Roman.
.ti 0
\&.LP	yes	-	Same as .PP.
.ti 0
\&.PD \fId\fR	no	\fId\fR=.4v	Interparagraph distance is 
.I d.
.ti 0
\&.PP	yes	-	Begin paragraph.
Set prevailing indent to .5i.
.ti 0
\&.RE	yes	-	End of relative indent.
Set prevailing indent to amount of starting .RS.
.ti 0
\&.RB \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Join
words of
.I t
alternating Roman and bold.
.ti 0
\&.RI \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Join
words of
.I t
alternating Roman and italic.
.ti 0
\&.RS \fIi\fR	yes	\fIi\fR=p.i.	Start relative indent,
move left margin in distance
.I i.
Set prevailing indent to .5i for nested indents.
.ti 0
\&.SH \fIt\fR	yes	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Subhead.
.ti 0
\&.SB \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Text
.I t
is small and bold.
.ti 0
\&.SM \fIt\fR	no	\fIt\fR=n.t.l.	Text
.I t
is small.
.ti 0
\&.TH \fIn c d x s\fR	yes	-	Begin page named
.I n
of chapter
.IR c;
.I d
is date of last change;
.I x
is extra commentary, e.g. `local', for page foot;
.I s
is a section description.
Set prevailing indent and tabs to .5i.
.ti 0
\&.TP \fIi\fR	yes	\fIi\fR=p.i.	Set prevailing indent to
.I i.
Begin indented paragraph
with hanging tag given by next text line.
If tag doesn't fit, place it on separate line.
.PP
.ti 0
* n.t.l. = next text line; p.i. = prevailing indent
.SH SEE ALSO
nroff(1), troff(1), man(1)
.SH NOTES
Relative indents don't nest.
