.\"
.\" Sccsid @(#)man.1	1.18 (gritter) 2/5/05
.\" Parts taken from intro(0), Unix 7th edition:
.\" Copyright(C) Caldera International Inc. 2001-2002. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"   Redistributions of source code and documentation must retain the
.\"    above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
.\"    disclaimer.
.\"   Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"   All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed or owned by Caldera
.\"      International, Inc.
.\"   Neither the name of Caldera International, Inc. nor the names of
.\"    other contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" USE OF THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED FOR UNDER THIS LICENSE BY CALDERA
.\" INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL CALDERA INTERNATIONAL, INC. BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
.\" BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE,
.\" EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH MAN 1 "2/5/05" "Heirloom Toolchest" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
man \- find and display reference manual pages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.ad l
.nh
\fBman\fR [\fB\-\fR] [\fB\-M\fI\ path\fR]
[\fB\-T\fI\ macro-package\fR] [\fB\-adlptw\fR]
[\fB\-m\fI\ system\fR]
[\fB\-s\fI\ section\fR]
[[\fIsection\fR]\ \fItitle\fR\ .\ .\ .]
\fItitle\fR\ .\ .\ .
.PP
\fBman\fR [\fB\-M\fI\ path\fR] \fB\-k\fI\ keyword\fR\ .\ .\ .
.PP
\fBman\fR [\fB\-M\fI\ path\fR] \fB\-f\fI\ file\fR\ .\ .\ .
.br
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B man
command shows information from the system reference manuals.
For each given
.IR title ,
the manual path is searched for the first matching entry,
which is formatted if appropriate.
When printing to a terminal,
or if the
.B \-
flag is given, the
.B man
command will invoke a pager to display the documentation,
else,
.IR cat (1)
is used.
.PP
The
.I section
argument, if present,
restricts the search to the given section of the manual.
.I section
consists of a single digit,
optionally followed by a single letter,
or one of
.IR new ,
.IR local ,
.IR old ,
or
.IR public .
Multiple
.I section
arguments may be present in the argument list,
each applies to the 
.I titles
positioned behind.
.PP
The
.B man
command accepts the following options:
.TP 12
.BI \-f \ file
Searches for manual entries related to the given
.I files
and print one-line summaries of them.
Only the basename component of each
.I file
is used.
A
.B windex
database as created by the
.IR catman (8)
command must exist for this operation.
.TP 12
.BI \-k \ keyword
Prints one-line summaries matching any of the given
.IR keywords .
This also needs a
.B windex
database.
.TP 12
.BI \-M \ path
Uses the given
.I path
as the manual search path, overriding both the configuration file
and the environment. The format of this path is described below.
.TP 12
.B \-t
If an entry is in
.IR troff (1)
source format, it is preformatted for a typesetter instead of a terminal.
.TP 12
.BI \-T \ macset
Use the specified
.IR troff (1)
macro package instead of the standard
.I \-man
set.
.PP
The following options are accepted as extensions:
.TP 12
.B \-a
Finds and displays all entries for each given
.IR title ,
not just the first one.
.TP 12
.B \-d
Uses a file name relative to current directory as the location
of the manual page
instead of searching in the manual search path.
The complete file name of a manual page source in troff format
must be specified with this option
instead of the page title.
.TP 12
.B \-l
Lists the titles of all matching entries instead of manual page
contents.
.TP 12
\fB\-m\ \fIsystem\fR
For each entry in the manual search path,
a directory named
.I system
below it is searched for manual pages.
Thus to make the manual pages of other systems accessible,
they can be put into separate subdirectories
within the system default manual directory.
.TP 12
.B \-p
Prints debugging messages instead of the formatted manual page.
.TP 12
.BI \-s \ section
Provides an alternate method to restrict the search
to specific sections of the manual.
This is useful if the section name
would otherwise be interpreted as a page name.
Multiple section names may be specified, separated by commas;
the order in which matches are displayed is not necessarily the
one given at this point.
.TP 12
.B \-w
Prints the full path name of the respective manual page(s)
instead of their contents.
.SS "Manual Structure"
The manual is divided into
eight sections:
.RS
.sp
1.	User commands
.br
2.	System calls
.br
3.	Subroutines
.br
4.	Special files
.br
5.	File formats and conventions
.br
6.	Games
.br
7.	Macro packages and language conventions
.br
8.	Maintenance commands
.sp
.RE
Commands are programs intended to be invoked directly by
the user, in contradistinction to subroutines, which are
intended to be called by the user's programs.
Commands generally reside in a directory
.I .\|.\|.\|/bin
(for
.IR bin \|ary
programs).
These directories are usually searched automatically
by the command interpreter, see
.IR sh (1).
.LP
System calls are entries into the
kernel.
Every system call has one or more C language interfaces
described in section 2.
.LP
An assortment
of subroutines is available;
they are described in section 3.
The primary libraries in which they are kept are described in
.IR intro (3).
The functions are described in terms of C, but most will
work with Fortran as well.
.LP
The special files section 4 discusses the characteristics of
each system `file' that actually refers to an I/O device.
The names in this
section may refer to the manufacturer device names for the
hardware,
instead of the names of
the special files themselves.
.LP
The file formats and conventions section 5 documents the structure of particular
kinds of files; for example, the form of the output of the loader and
assembler is given.  Excluded are files used by only one command,
for example the assembler's intermediate files.
.LP
Games have been relegated to section 6 to keep them from contaminating
the more staid information of section 1.
.LP
Section 7 is a miscellaneous collection of information necessary to
writing in various specialized languages:
character codes, 
macro packages for typesetting,
etc.
.LP
The maintenance 
section 8 discusses procedures not intended
for use by the ordinary user.
These procedures often involve use of commands
of section 1, where an attempt has been made to
single out peculiarly maintenance-flavored commands
by marking them 1M.
.LP
Each section consists of a number of independent
entries of a page or so each.
The name of the entry is in the upper corners of its pages,
together with the section number, and sometimes a
letter characteristic of a subcategory, e.g. graphics is 1G,
and the math library is 3M.
.LP
All entries are based on a common format,
not all of whose subsections will always appear.
.RS
.LP
The
.I name
subsection lists the exact names of the commands and subroutines
covered under the entry and gives
a very short description of their purpose.
.LP
The
.IR synopsis ""
summarizes the use of the
program being described.
A few conventions are used, particularly in the
Commands subsection:
.LP
.RS
.B Boldface
words are considered literals, and
are typed just as they appear.
.LP
Square brackets [ ] around an argument
indicate that the argument is optional.
When an argument is given as `name', it always
refers to a file name.
.LP
Ellipses `.\|.\|.' are used to show that the previous argument-prototype
may be repeated.
.LP
A final convention is used by the commands themselves.
An argument beginning with a minus sign `\-'
is often taken to mean some sort of option-specifying argument
even if it appears in a position where a file name
could appear.  Therefore, it is unwise to have files
whose names begin with `\-'.
.LP
.RE
The
.IR description ""
subsection discusses in detail the subject at hand.
.LP
The
.IR files ""
subsection gives the names of files which are
built into the program.
.LP
A
.I see also
subsection gives pointers to related information.
.LP
A
.I  diagnostics
subsection discusses
the diagnostic indications which may be produced.
Messages which are intended to be self-explanatory
are not listed.
.LP
The
.IR bugs ""
or
.IR notes ""
subsection gives remarks,
known bugs and sometimes deficiencies.
Occasionally also the suggested fix is
described.
.RE
.SS Configuration
The
.B man
command reads the configuration file
.B /etc/default/man
on startup. Lines containing the following strings are interpreted:
.TP
.BI MANPATH= path
Sets the manual search path, formatted as a colon-separated list of
directories.
The default is
.IR /usr/local/share/man:/usr/share/man .
.TP
.BI TROFF= command
This command is invoked if the
.B \-t
option is given, usually
.IR troff .
.TP
.BI NROFF= command
Sets the command used to preformat manual pages for a terminal,
defaults to
.IR "nroff \-Tlp" .
.TP
.BI EQN= command
The eqn command for formatting mathematics on a typesetter, normally
.IR eqn .
.TP
.BI NEQN= command
The neqn command for formatting mathematics on a terminal, normally
.IR neqn .
.TP
.BI TBL= command
The tbl command for formatting tables, usually
.IR tbl .
.TP
.BI REFER= command
The refer command for formatting bibliographic references,
usually
.IR refer .
.TP
.BI VGRIND= command
The vgrind command for formatting program listings,
normally
.IR vgrind .
.TP
.BI MACSET= macro-package
The
.IR troff (1)
macro set to be used, normally
.IR \-man .
.TP
.BI COL= command
The command used to filter
.IR nroff (1)
output, normally
.IR col (1)
with the option
.IR \-x .
.TP
.BI PAGER= command
The pager command that is used to display pages on a terminal instead of
.IR pg .
.TP
.BI TCAT= command
Used to display pages if the
.B \-t
option is present, defaults to
.IR cat .
.PP
In addition, each directory within the manual search path may contain
a file named
.B man.cf
with the following content:
.TP
.BI MANSECTS= sections
Section search order for this directory. Multiple section names may
be specified, separated by commas.
.PP
If no
.B man.cf
file is present, sections are searched in lexicographical order.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
If any of the strings described in the global configuration file format
above is present within the environment, the latter setting is used.
.TP
.B MANPATH
If the value of this variable contains the string
``::'',
the manual path specified in the configuration file is
inserted at this point.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/default/man
Configuration file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
apropos(1),
cat(1),
col(1),
eqn(1),
nroff(1),
pg(1),
refer(1),
tbl(1),
troff(1),
vgrind(1),
whatis(1),
man(7),
catman(8)
